To effectively manage the trade-offs between squeeze/breakout and trending stocks, and between smaller and higher timeframes (TF), you can structure your scanning process into two distinct, yet complementary, stages: The Watchlist Builder (Higher TF) and The Entry Timer (Smaller TF).

1. The Watchlist Builder: Focus on Potential (Higher TFs - 15m/30m/60m)
This stage addresses your concern about missing bigger potential. You want to identify stocks with the potential for a significant move before they become obvious trends.

Primary Scanner: Squeeze (e.g., Keltner Channels/Bollinger Bands) and High-Volume Consolidation/DC Breakout.

Goal: To find stocks that are currently basing, consolidating, or in a tight trading range on a Higher Timeframe (15-minute or 30-minute). These are your "coiled springs" with the biggest potential for explosive moves.

Action: Add these stocks to a "Pre-Breakout Watchlist." You are identifying the potential setup.

Secondary Scanner: Already Trending Stocks (High Relative Strength/ADX).

Goal: To find stocks that are already moving strongly on the Daily or 60-minute TF. These stocks offer high-probability continuation trades after a pullback.

Action: Add these to a "Momentum Watchlist."
Scanner Type,Timeframe,Focus,Benefit
Squeeze/Consolidation,15m / 30m,Bigger Potential,Early entry on explosive moves.
Trending/Momentum,60m / Daily,High Probability,Continuation trades with established direction.

The Entry Timer: Pinpoint Timing (Smaller TFs - 1m/3m/5m)
This stage addresses your concern about pinpointing entries without missing the initial move. This is where you use the smaller TFs for execution only.

Once you have your watchlists, you do not trade directly off the higher TF alert. Instead, you wait for confirmation on a smaller TF.

For the "Pre-Breakout Watchlist" (Squeeze/Consolidation):

Wait for the stock to break the consolidation level (DC Breakout) on the Higher TF (e.g., the 15m candle closes above the range).

Immediately switch to the Smallest Timeframe (1-minute or 3-minute).

Pinpoint Entry: Enter only when the smaller TF confirms the direction—look for a high-volume candle, a flag break, or a moving average cross in the direction of the breakout. This avoids false higher TF breaks.

For the "Momentum Watchlist" (Trending Stocks):

Wait for the stock to pull back to a key support level on the Higher TF (e.g., 9 or 20 period EMA on the 15m chart).

Switch to the Smallest Timeframe (3-minute or 5-minute).

Pinpoint Entry: Enter when the smaller TF shows a reversal candlestick pattern (e.g., hammer, engulfing) or a moving average flip at that higher TF support level. This ensures you're entering at a high-value, lower-risk zone during an established trend.

Timeframe Use,Action,Resolution
Higher TF (15m+),Identify the Setup (Squeeze or Pullback),Prevents small moves hitting big TF resistance.
Smaller TF (1m/3m/5m),Pinpoint the Entry (Confirmation/Reversal),Prevents missed opportunity and filters false breaks.

Intraday Scanner Indicators
1. 🎯 Squeeze and Breakout Scanners (Finding Potential)
The goal here is to identify periods of low volatility (the squeeze) on a higher timeframe, which often precedes an explosive move (the breakout).

Indicator,Timeframe,Scanner Criteria,Purpose
TTM Squeeze (or Bollinger Bands/Keltner Channel Combo),15m or 30m,"Look for the ""squeeze on"" signal (red dots in TTM, or Bollinger Bands inside Keltner Channels).","Identify Stocks Coiling: This is your primary ""Pre-Breakout Watchlist"" builder, spotting stocks before the major move happens."
High Volume Consolidation,15m,"Current volume below 20-period Average True Range (ATR), but with a Doji or Inside Bar pattern at a key price level (e.g., previous day's high/low).","Identify Stocks Resting: Finds stocks building energy near a breakout level, ensuring they have liquidity but are currently tightening."
Donchian Channel (DC) Breakout,30m,Current price has crossed either the 20-period Highest High or Lowest Low by a small margin.,Alert the Firing: Acts as the alert that the consolidation range is beginning to break. You then use the smaller TF to confirm the follow-through.

2. 🚀 Trending and Momentum Scanners (Finding Continuation)
The goal here is to identify stocks already moving strongly on the highest timeframes, which you will then wait for a pullback in to enter.
Indicator,Timeframe,Scanner Criteria,Purpose
Average Directional Index (ADX),60m or Daily,ADX > 25 (ideally moving up toward 40).,"Confirm Strong Trend: This filters for stocks with a strong, established trend, distinguishing true momentum from choppy price action."
Relative Strength (RS),Daily,Stock's 20-day Relative Strength Index (RSI) > 60 (for uptrends) or < 40 (for downtrends).,Filter for Strength: Ensures the stock is currently outperforming or underperforming the general market or its sector.
Moving Average (MA) Stack,60m,5-period EMA > 20-period EMA > 50-period SMA.,"Trend Alignment: This visually confirms a strong, clean trend where shorter-term momentum is aligned with intermediate-term direction."

Multi-Timeframe Execution Blueprint
Here's how you use these indicators to resolve your conflict using the multi-timeframe approach:

Scenario A: Trading a Squeeze/Breakout (Higher Potential)
Scanner (15m/30m): TTM Squeeze signals a squeeze is ON (red dots).

Higher TF Setup (15m): Wait for the price to break out of the range (e.g., Donchian Channel break, or the first green TTM dot/Bollinger Band expansion).

Lower TF Entry (3m/5m): Switch to the 3-minute chart. Do not enter immediately. Wait for one of the following confirmations:

A high-volume candle break in the direction of the higher TF breakout.

A pullback to the 9-period EMA or the top of the breakout range, followed by a bullish engulfing/hammer candlestick.

This pinpoints your entry, avoiding a false breakout on the 15m chart.

Scenario B: Trading a Trend Continuation (Higher Probability)
Scanner (60m/Daily): ADX > 25 and MA Stack is aligned (strong uptrend).

Higher TF Setup (15m): Wait for the price to pull back to a key support MA (e.g., 20-period EMA on the 15m chart).

Lower TF Entry (3m/5m): Switch to the 3-minute chart. Do not enter immediately. Wait for a clear reversal signal at that 15m support level:

RSI on the 3m chart drops to near 30 and then crosses back up above 50.

A reversal candlestick pattern (e.g., bullish engulfing) forms with a volume spike at the 15m support level.

This gives you the best-risk-reward entry in an established, confirmed trend.

By dividing the scanning process into finding setups on the higher TFs and finding entries on the smaller TFs, you effectively capture the potential of the squeeze and the reliability of the trend without the timing pitfalls of a single timeframe.



these are 2 scanners (appSQZ.py and scan.py)
Ref Links:https://shner-elmo.github.io/TradingView-Screener/fields/stocks.html
https://shner-elmo.github.io/TradingView-Screener/3.0.0/tradingview_screener.html
https://github.com/shner-elmo/TradingView-Screener

Generate CODE for Multi-Timeframe, Multi-Strategy Filter system based on above.
additional details are given in "Multi-Strategy Scanner System Readme.md" file